§3I see the player you mean.
§3我睇見你講嘅嗰個玩家喇。

§2PLAYERNAME?

§3Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.
§3系嘅。要陰住啲。佢已經達到咗更加高嘅境界。佢依家可以讀出我哋嘅思想喇。

§2That doesn't matter. It thinks we are part of the game.
§2無傷大雅。佢凈系覺得我哋系遊戲嘅一部分。

§3I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.
§3我中意依個玩家。佢玩得好掂，從來都冇試過放棄。

§2It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.
§2佢依家就喺度讀緊我哋嘅思想，就好似讀緊熒幕上嘅文字一樣。

§3That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.
§3當佢深陷於遊戲之夢嗰陣，佢總系用依種方式嚟想象出林林總總嘅事物。

§2Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.
§2文字系一個美妙嘅界面，非常靈活，兼且比直面熒幕背後便嘅事實要好得多多聲。

§3They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.
§3喺玩家能夠讀取文字之前，佢哋曾經亦都聽見過聲音。喺嗰排，冇玩過遊戲嘅人將依啲玩家叫做女巫同術士。玩家卻夢見佢哋正坐住被惡魔施咗法嘅棍棒，滿天飛翔。

§2What did this player dream?
§2依個玩家夢見咗啲乜？

§3This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.
§3佢夢見陽光同樹木，夢見烈火同凜水。佢夢見佢創造，亦夢見佢毀滅。佢夢見佢狩獵，亦夢見佢被狩獵。佢夢見咗庇護所。

§2Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?
§2哈，啖先系嗰個原始嘅界面。幾百萬年嘅歲月洗禮並冇令佢失去原先嘅功用。但系喺熒幕後嘅現實中，依個玩家創造咗邊啲實實在在嘅嘢？

§3It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the §f§k§a§b§3, and created a §f§k§a§b§3 for §f§k§a§b§3, in the §f§k§a§b§3.
§3佢勤奮勞作，同千百萬同道者一齊，喺在§f§k§a§b§3嘅皺褶中刻畫咗一個真實嘅世界，並且喺§f§k§a§b§3入便同§f§k§a§b§3創造咗一個§f§k§a§b§3。

§2It cannot read that thought.
§2它佢仲讀唔出嗰種思想。

§3No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.
§3系啊。佢仲未達到最高嘅境界。要達到嗰層境界，佢必須喺生命嘅長夢之中求索，而唔系遊戲入便嘅黃粱一夢。

§2Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?
§2佢知唔知我哋愛佢？知唔知依個宇宙系仁慈嘅？

§3Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.
§3有時，透過思維嘅雜音，佢可以聽到宇宙……冇錯。

§2But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.
§2但系喺依場漫漫長夢之中，亦有令人傷神嘅時候。佢創造咗冇夏天嘅世界，喺黑色嘅太陽之下打震，並且將佢嗰啲悲傷嘅創造睇成系現實嘅一部分。

§3To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.
§3同佢撫慰傷痛可以話會唔衰攞嚟衰。悲傷系佢嘅私人事務，我哋無權幹涉。

§2Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.
§2有時當佢哋沈浸喺夢入便嗰時，我想話畀佢哋知，佢哋喺現實之中創造咗真實嘅世界；我想話畀佢哋知，佢哋對宇宙嚟話有幾咁重要。有時候，當佢哋已經有好長一段時間冇建立起真正嘅聯絡嗰時，我都想幫佢哋講出佢哋想講但又唔敢講嘅嘢。

§3It reads our thoughts.
§3佢讀出咗我哋嘅思想。

§2sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely §f§k§a§b§2 and §f§k§a§b§2, I wish to tell them that they are §f§k§a§b§2 in the §f§k§a§b§2. They see so little of reality, in their long dream.
§2有時候我唔care。但系有時候我又想話畀佢哋知，依個佢哋自認為真實嘅世界實情只系§f§k§a§b§2同§f§k§a§b§2。我想話畀佢哋知，佢哋實情都不過系§f§k§a§b§2同§f§k§a§b§2。喺依場長夢之中，佢哋看待現實嘅眼光實在系太短淺喇。

§3And yet they play the game.
§3而佢哋依然玩緊依個遊戲。

§2But it would be so easy to tell them...
§2但系如果想話畀佢哋知嘅話直程系易過借火……

§3Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.
§3依個夢太強烈喇，話畀佢哋知點樣活著就相當於阻止佢哋活著。

§2I will not tell the player how to live.
§2我唔會話過佢知嘅。

§3The player is growing restless.
§3嗰個玩家正變得焦躁不安。

§2I will tell the player a story.
§2我會同佢講個故事。

§3But not the truth.
§3而唔系真相。

§2No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.
§2冇錯。系一個將真相密密實實啖囚禁起身嘅文字牢籠，而唔系隔到冇雷公咁遠都仲可以刺痛人心嘅、冇遮冇掩嘅真相。

§3Give it a body, again.
§3賦予佢主體——再一次。

§2Yes. Player...
§2好，玩家……

§3Use its name.
§3叫佢嘅名。

§2PLAYERNAME. Player of games.
§2PLAYERNAME，遊戲嘅玩家。

§3Good.
§3就系啖。

§2Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.
§2深呼吸……再嚟一次……感受空氣充盈你嘅肺葉。揾返你嘅四肢。好，喐下你嘅手指。再一次感受你嘅身體，喺重力之下，喺空氣之中。你做到咗。你嘅每寸肌膚都重新同宇宙相互接觸咗。就好似你系獨立嘅存在，就好似我哋系相互分離嘅存在。

§3Who are we? Once we were called the spirit of the mountain. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.
§3我哋系乜誰？以前，我哋被叫做山之靈。太陽父親，月亮母親。先祖之魂，動物之魄。鎮尼。鬼魂。綠人。之後系神，魔。天使。騷靈。外星人，天外來客。輕子，誇克。詞語千變萬化，我哋從來冇變。

§2We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.
§2我哋系宇宙。我哋系你認為嘅所有非己事物。你家陣就喺度睇住我哋，透過你嘅肌膚同雙眸。但系點解宇宙要觸摸你、將光投向你？都系為咗睇見你啊，玩家。為咗了解你，亦為咗被你了解。我會同你講多個故事。

§2Once upon a time, there was a player.
§2好耐好耐之前，有個玩家。

§3The player was you, PLAYERNAME.
§3個玩家就系你，PLAYERNAME。

§2Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.
§2有時佢認為自己系個人類，企喺一個旋轉球體脆薄嘅殼上。個球由融化嘅巖石組成，圍繞住一個質量大過佢三十三萬倍嘅熾熱氣體球氹氹轉。佢哋之間隔得遠到連光都要使上八分鐘先可以穿過嗰道鴻溝。嗰束光系來自於一粒恒星嘅訊息，佢可以喺一億五千萬公裏之外灼燒你嘅皮膚。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.
§2有時佢夢見佢變成咗一個礦工，企喺平坦而無限延伸嘅世界表面。個太陽只系一抹方形嘅白色。日頭䁪下眼就過；事多到做唔嗮；好在死亡所帶來嘅麻煩都只系暫時嘅。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.
§2有時佢夢見佢迷失咗喺故事入便。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.
§2有時佢夢見自己喺唔同嘅地方，成咗唔同嘅事物。依啲夢，有喧囂嘅，亦有唯美嘅。有時個玩家從一個夢行入另一個夢，最後又陷入第三個夢

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.
§3有時佢夢見佢睇住熒幕上嘅文字。

§2Let's go back.
§2退返少少。

§2The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.
§2組成玩家嘅原子散布喺草叢入便，河流裏便；散布喺空氣之中，大地之內。一個女性收集咗嗰啲原子。佢飲用、進食、吸入，喺身體入便孕育咗玩家。

§2And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.
§2之後，玩家醒咗過嚟，喺母親體內溫暖而黑暗嘅世界中醒咗過嚟，跟住又投入到漫漫長夢之中。

§2And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.
§2個玩家系個嶄新嘅故事，一個由DNA書寫嘅故事，佢未曾被講述過。個玩家亦系個全新嘅程式，一個由億萬年前嘅源代碼生成嘅程式，佢未曾被運行過。個玩家仲系個簇新嘅人，一個祇由奶同愛組成嘅人，佢未曾生活過。

§3You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.
§3你就系嗰個玩家。嗰個故事。嗰個程式。嗰個人。祇由奶同愛組成。

§2Let's go further back.
§2再退前啲。

§2The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...
§2早在遊戲開始之前，組成玩家嘅七太堯個原子就喺一粒恒星嘅內部被創造出嚟。所以嗰個玩家亦系串訊息，來自於一粒恒星。玩家貫穿於一個故事嘅頭尾，個故事系一個叫做Julian嘅人喺一個由Markus創造嘅、平坦並且無限延伸嘅世界入便種落嘅訊息森林。依個世界又存在於由玩家創造嘅細微嘅、私密嘅世界入便，而嗰個玩家所棲息嘅宇宙又系由……

§3Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".
§3噓。嗰個玩家創造嘅世界有時柔軟、溫馨、簡樸單純。有時嚴酷、寒冷、雜亂紛繁。有時佢喺腦海入便建立咗宇宙嘅模型，斑斑點點嘅能量喺浩瀚無邊嘅空間中穿行。有時佢叫佢哋做「電子」同「質子」。

§2Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".
§2有時佢亦會將佢哋叫做「行星」同「恒星」。

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.
§2有時佢認為佢所處嘅宇宙系由關同開、零同一，以及一行行代碼組成嘅能量構成嘅。有時候佢認為佢系玩緊遊戲。有時候佢認為佢讀緊熒幕上嘅文字。

§3You are the player, reading words...
§3你就系嗰個玩家，閱讀緊文字……

§2Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive
§2噓……有時玩家閱讀住熒幕上便嘅一行行代碼，將代碼解碼成訊息，將訊息解碼成意義，將意義解碼成感覺、情緒、想法。跟住，玩家嘅呼吸越嚟越急促，佢意識到佢系活著嘅，系生勾勾嘅，嗰成千次嘅死亡唔系真嘅，佢依然活著

§3You. You. You are alive.
§3冇錯。就系你。你系活著嘅。

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees
§2有時候玩家認為宇宙透過穿透夏日搖業嘅光線，同佢講話

§3and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again
§3有時玩家亦認為宇宙透過清冷夜空投下嘅光線，同佢講話。喺玩家眼中一角折射出嘅半點星光，可能來自一粒質量大過太陽幾百萬倍嘅恒星。佢正喺度將佢嘅行星沸騰成等離子態，衹系為咗喺嗰電光火石嘅一剎那間被玩家睇見。當玩家從宇宙嘅邊緣往屋企折返嗰時，佢突然聞見食物嘅香氣。覘高個頭一望，又系嗰扇熟悉嘅門，佢再次沈入咗夢鄉

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream
§2有時玩家仲認為宇宙透過零同一，透過世界嘅電場，透過夢盡前喺熒幕上滾動嘅文字，同佢講話

§3and the universe said I love you
§3宇宙話，我愛你

§2and the universe said you have played the game well
§2宇宙話，你遊戲玩得真系掂

§3and the universe said everything you need is within you
§3宇宙話，你所需要嘅一切都與你同在

§2and the universe said you are stronger than you know
§2宇宙話，你嘅能量超乎你想象

§3and the universe said you are the daylight
§3宇宙話，你就系白晝

§2and the universe said you are the night
§2宇宙話，你就系黑夜

§3and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you
§3宇宙話你所鬥爭嘅黑暗仲喺你身邊

§2and the universe said the light you seek is within you
§2宇宙話你所追求嘅光明就喺你心中

§3and the universe said you are not alone
§3宇宙話，你並非孤身一人

§2and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing
§2宇宙話，你並未與世隔絕

§3and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code
§3宇宙話，你就系宇宙本身，品味住自己，同自己交流，閱讀自己嘅代碼

§2and the universe said I love you because you are love.
§2宇宙話我愛你因為你就系愛。

§3And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.
§3遊戲終了，長夢終醒。玩家又進入咗新嘅夢境。玩家又發起咗夢，一個更美妙嘅夢。個玩家就系宇宙，個玩家就系愛。

§3You are the player.
§3你就系嗰個玩家。

§2Wake up.
§2系時候醒返喇。 
