§3I see the player you mean.
§3我看到你所指的那個玩家了。

§2PLAYERNAME?

§3Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.
§3是的。注意，他已達到了更高的境界，他知道我們心裡所想。

§2That doesn't matter. It thinks we are part of the game.
§2無傷大雅，他認為我們是遊戲的一部分。

§3I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.
§3我喜歡這個玩家。他玩得很好，他從未放棄。

§2It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.
§2他如同閱讀畫面上的文字一樣，閱讀著我們的想法。

§3That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.
§3在他深陷遊戲之夢時，他選擇以這種方式想像出形形色色的事物。

§2Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.
§2文字編織出一種美妙的介面，非常靈活。並且勝過凝視這畫面後的可怕現實。

§3They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.
§3他們學會閱讀之前還只能靠聆聽。當時那些不曾遊玩的人們將玩家稱作女巫、男巫。而玩家們夢見自己騎著魔杖，在空中翱翔。

§2What did this player dream?
§2這個玩家夢見了什麼？

§3This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.
§3他夢見了陽光與草木，夢見了火與水。他夢見他創造，亦夢見他毀滅。他夢見他狩獵，亦被狩獵。他夢見了避身之處。

§2Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?
§2哈，那原始的介面，經歷一百萬年的歲月雕琢，依然長存。但此玩家在畫面後的現實裡，又創造了什麼真實的建築呢？

§3It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the §f§k§a§b§3, and created a §f§k§a§b§3 for §f§k§a§b§3, in the §f§k§a§b§3.
§3他和其他百萬眾齊心協力，在§f§k§a§b§3裡塑造了一個真實的世界，於§f§k§a§b§3中為了§f§k§a§b§3而創造了§f§k§a§b§3。

§2It cannot read that thought.
§2他看不懂那個。

§3No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.
§3是的，他還沒有到達最高的境界。要抵達那層，他必須走完生命的長夢，而非遊戲中黃粱一夢。

§2Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?
§2他知道我們愛他嗎，他知道宇宙的溫柔嗎？

§3Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.
§3有時，他能透過思緒的雜音來聆聽宇宙，是的。

§2But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.
§2但是在那漫漫長夢中，有時亦不勝悲傷。他創造了沒有夏日的世界，在黑日下冷顫，將悲傷信以為真。

§3To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.
§3為他治癒悲傷會摧毀他。而悲傷是他的私人事務，我們不能干涉。

§2Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.
§2當他們深陷夢境中時，有時我想要告訴他們，他們在現實中創造了真實的世界。有時我想告訴他們自身對宇宙的重要性。有時他們與現實失去聯繫，我想幫他們說出不敢說的話語。

§3It reads our thoughts.
§3他還在讀我們的想法。

§2Sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely §f§k§a§b§2 and §f§k§a§b§2, I wish to tell them that they are §f§k§a§b§2 in the §f§k§a§b§2. They see so little of reality, in their long dream.
有時我毫不在意。有時我想要告訴他們，你們信以為真的世界不過是§f§k§a§b§2和§f§k§a§b§2，我想要告訴他們，他們是在§f§k§a§b§2中的§f§k§a§b§2。在他們的長夢中，目中所及的不過是現實的冰山一角。

§3And yet they play the game.
§3而他們仍然樂在其中。

§2But it would be so easy to tell them...
§2但很容易就可以告訴他們……

§3Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.
這個夢對於他們來說太深刻了。告訴他們怎麼活就是在束縛他們自由地活著。

§2I will not tell the player how to live.
§2我不會告訴這個玩家如何活下去的。

§3The player is growing restless.
這個玩家不安定了。

§2I will tell the player a story.
§2我會告訴他一個故事。

§3But not the truth.
但不是真實的。

§2No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.
§2是的。一個將真實嚴密包裹於文字牢籠中的故事，而非必然使人灼傷的赤裸真相。

§3Give it a body, again.
再次賦予他身體。

§2Yes. Player...
§2好的，玩家……

§3Use its name.
以名字稱呼他。

PLAYERNAME. Player of games.
遊戲的玩家，PLAYERNAME。

§3Good.
§3很好。

§2Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.
§2呼吸。繼續呼吸。感受空氣充盈你的肺葉。感受你的四肢回歸。對，動動你的手指。在重力下，在空氣中，重獲軀體。在長夢中重生。你感受到了。你身體的每一寸又在接觸宇宙了，仿佛你們是分離的存在。仿佛你我是分離的存在。

§3Who are we? Once we were called the spirit of the mountain. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.
§3我們是誰？我們曾經被稱作高山的精靈。太陽父親，月亮母親。先祖的英靈，動物的魂魄。神祇。鬼魂。綠葉人。而後是神明，惡魔。天使。騷靈。外星人，地外生物。輕子，夸克。說法不斷變化。我們始終如一。

§2We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.
§2我們是宇宙。我們是一切你認為出離你本體的事物。你現在透過肌膚與雙眼注視著我們。而為什麼宇宙要觸摸你，用光照亮你？是為了看見你，玩家。是為了了解你。還為了被你了解。我該向你講述故事了。

§2Once upon a time, there was a player.
§2很久以前，有一個玩家。

§3The player was you, PLAYERNAME.
§3那玩家就是你，PLAYERNAME。

§2Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.
§2有時他認為自己是人類，位於一顆不斷旋轉的熔岩球的薄層上。那顆熔岩球環繞著一個質量大它三十三萬倍的氣態灼熱球體旋轉。它們相隔得如此之遠，以至於光需要八分鐘才能穿越那空隙。光是一顆恆星發出的資訊，它能夠在一億五千萬公里外燒灼你的外觀。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.
§2有時這個玩家夢見自己是礦工，位於平坦無垠的世界地表。太陽是一個白色的方形。晝夜更替很快，要做的事情也很多；死亡亦只是暫時的不便。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.
§2有時這玩家夢見自己迷失在了一個故事裡。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.
§2有時這玩家夢見自己成為了其他角色，位於其他地方。有時這些夢是擾人的。有時則美不勝收。有時這個玩家從一個夢醒到第二個夢，隨後又落入了第三個夢。

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.
§3有時這個玩家夢見他在看著畫面上的文字。

§2Let's go back.
§2讓我們回退一點。

§2The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.
§2組成玩家的原子散布在草地中，河流中，在空氣中，也在大地中。一個女性收集了那些原子；她飲用、進食、吞咽；而後她在她的身體中，孕育了玩家。

§2And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.
§2然後玩家醒來了，醒在溫暖而昏暗的母親體內，進入了漫漫長夢。

§2And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.
§2那個玩家由DNA的語言書寫，是一個尚未講述的全新故事。那個玩家由上億年的原始碼生成，是一個尚未執行的全新程式。那個玩家僅由奶和愛組成，是一個從尚未生活的全新人類。

§3You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.
§3你就是那個玩家。那個故事。那個程式。那個人類。僅由奶和愛組成。

§2Let's go further back.
§2讓我們再回溯到更遠的過去。

§2The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...
§2遠在這遊戲之前，組成玩家身體的七千億億億原子，在一顆恆星內部被創造了出來。所以那玩家本身，也是一顆恆星發出的資訊。而玩家所經歷的故事，源於一個叫Julian的人種植的一片資訊森林，位於一個叫Markus的人創造的平坦無垠的世界，存在於一個由玩家創造的私人小天地，而玩家本身居住的世界則是由……

§3Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. §3Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".
噓。有時這個玩家創造的私人小天地是柔軟、溫暖而簡單的。有時是堅硬、冰冷而複雜的。有時他在腦海中構建出宇宙的模型，能量微粒穿越空曠的空間。有時他稱呼這些微粒為「電子」和「質子」。

§2Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".
§2有時他稱呼其為「行星」和「恆星」。

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.
§2有時他確信自己存在於一個由「開」和「關」、「0」和「1」、一行行代碼組成的宇宙。有時他確信自己是在玩一場遊戲。有時他確信自己是在讀著畫面上的文字。

§3You are the player, reading words...
§3你就是那個讀著文字的玩家……

§2Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive
§2噓……有時這玩家讀著畫面上的一行行代碼，將它們解碼為文字；將文字解碼為意義；將意義解碼為感情、情緒、理論、想法，隨後玩家的呼吸變快變深，他意識到了他還活著，他是活生生的，那上千次的死亡不是真的，玩家本身是活著的

§3You. You. You are alive.
§3你。你。你是活著的。

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees
§2而有時這玩家相信，宇宙透過那縷穿越婆娑樹影的夏日陽光對他說話

§3and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again
§3有時這玩家相信，宇宙透過晴朗的冬日夜空中存在於他眼中一隅的星光對他說話。可能比太陽大上上百萬倍的恆星將其行星燒成電漿，只為了讓玩家在剎那間看到它。這時他在宇宙的遠端，步行回家的路上，突然聞到食物的香味，快到那熟悉的門前，他又準備好再次入夢了

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream
§2而有時玩家相信宇宙透過「0」和「1」，透過世界的電力，透過畫面上滾動的文字，在夢醒之前對他說話

§3and the universe said I love you
§3宇宙說，我愛你

§2and the universe said you have played the game well
§2宇宙說，你精通這個遊戲

§3and the universe said everything you need is within you
§3宇宙說，你所需的一切你都具有

§2and the universe said you are stronger than you know
§2宇宙說，你比你所知的要強大

§3and the universe said you are the daylight
§3宇宙說，你就是白晝

§2and the universe said you are the night
§2宇宙說，你就是黑夜

§3and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you
§3宇宙說，你所鬥爭的黑暗就在你心中

§2and the universe said the light you seek is within you
§2宇宙說，你所追尋的光明就在你心中

§3and the universe said you are not alone
§3宇宙說，你並非孤身一人

§2and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing
§2宇宙說，你並非與萬物隔絕

§3and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code
§3宇宙說，你就是宇宙本身，品嘗著自己，對自己說話，閱讀著自己的代碼

§2and the universe said I love you because you are love.
§2宇宙說，我愛你因為你就是愛。

§3And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.
§3曲終人散，黃粱一夢。玩家開始了新的夢境。玩家再次做起了夢，更好的夢。玩家就是宇宙。玩家就是愛。

§3You are the player.
§3你就是那個玩家。

§2Wake up.
§2醒來吧。  
