§3I see the player you mean.
§3我看见你所提到的那个玩家了。

§2PLAYERNAME?

§3Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.
§3对。小心一点。他现在已经触及到了一种更高的境界。他已然可以解读出我们的思想。

§2That doesn't matter. It thinks we are part of the game.
§2无妨。他会认为我们是这个游戏的一部分。

§3I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.
§3我喜欢这个玩家。他打的很好。他也从未放弃。

§2It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.
§2他正通过屏幕上的文字解读我们的思想。

§3That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.
§3当他深陷游戏之梦时，他总以这个方式来想象各式各样的事物。

§2Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.
§2文字创造出一块绝妙的界面。非常灵活。而且相较于屏幕背后的现实来说，更令人亲和。

§3They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.
§3他们也曾听到过那声音。在玩家能够解读之前。那些不曾玩过的人们把玩家称作女巫、术士。而玩家们梦见自己乘坐在被恶魔赋予力量的魔棒上飞越天空。

§2What did this player dream?
§2那这个玩家梦到了什么？

§3This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.
§3这个玩家梦见了阳光与树木、火与水。它还梦到了它的创造，也梦到了它的毁灭。它梦到了它的猎杀与被猎杀。它梦到了庇护所。

§2Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?
§2哈，那个界面。经过了百万年的消磨，它仍在运转。但在这个玩家的屏幕后面的现实里，究竟创造了什么真实的结构？

§3It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the §f§k§a§b§3, and created a §f§k§a§b§3 for §f§k§a§b§3, in the §f§k§a§b§3.
§3它在劳作，和上百万其他人一起，在§f§k§a§b§3的折叠中雕塑了一个真正的世界，并在§f§k§a§b§3中为§f§k§a§b§3创造了一个§f§k§a§b§3

§2It cannot read that thought.
§2它无法解读出那个思想。

§3No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.
§3不。它还没有达到那最高的境界。为此，它必须要完成生命之长梦，而不仅仅是游戏中的短短一梦。

§2Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?
§2它知道我们爱着它吗？它知道这个宇宙是慈祥的吗？

§3Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.
§3有时，通过它思绪的杂声，他听到了宇宙，是的

§2But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.
§2但它仍时不时的陷入悲伤之中，在那漫漫长梦中。他创造了没有夏日的世界，他在乌黑的太阳下颤抖着并将他那伤心的创造视为现实。

§3To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.
§3尝试治愈他的悲伤，会毁掉他的。解决悲伤是他自己的任务。我们不能干预。

§2Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.
§2有时，当他们深陷梦境中时我都想告诉他们，他们正在现实中创造真正的世界。有时我想告诉他们，他们对于宇宙的重要。有时当他们失去与宇宙的真正的连接一会儿后，我想帮助他们说出他们所畏惧的言语。

§3It reads our thoughts.
§3他解读出了我们的思想。

§2Sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely §f§k§a§b§2 and §f§k§a§b§2, I wish to tell them that they are §f§k§a§b§2 in the §f§k§a§b§2. They see so little of reality, in their long dream.
§2有时我根本不在意。有时我希望去告诉他们，这个被你们所寻求的真实的世界仅仅是§f§k§a§b§2是§f§k§a§b§2而已。在他们那漫长的梦境中，他们看到的太少了

§3And yet they play the game.
§3而他们还在玩这个游戏。

§2But it would be so easy to tell them...
§2但实际上很容易就能告诉他们……

§3Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.
§3对于这个梦来说太强烈了。告诉他们如何活下去就如同限制他们活下去。

§2I will not tell the player how to live.
§2我是不会告诉这个玩家怎么活下去的。

§3The player is growing restless.
§3这个玩家正逐渐焦虑。

§2I will tell the player a story.
§2我将会告诉这个玩家一个故事。

§3But not the truth.
§3但却不是真相。

§2No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.
§2不。这个故事是一个将真相所包裹起来的关于文字的牢笼。但却不是赤裸裸的真相。

§3Give it a body, again.
§3再一次赋予他身体。

§2Yes. Player...
§2好的，玩家……

§3Use its name.
§3用他的姓名。

§2PLAYERNAME. Player of games.
§2PLAYERNAME，游戏的玩家。

§3Good.
§3很好。

§2Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.
§2现在开始呼吸。再呼吸一次。感受在你肺叶中的空气。让你的四肢回归。移动你的手指。再次感受你的身体，在重力下，在空气下。你应该感受到了。你的身体正在触摸宇宙中的每处，你仿佛就是分离的个体。我们仿佛也是分离的个体。

§3Who are we? Once we were called the spirit of the mountain. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.
§3我们是谁？我们曾经被称作高山的意志。日之父，月之母。古老的精神，动物的灵魂。神祗，鬼，绿人，然后是神，恶魔，天使，捣蛋鬼，外星人，地外生物，轻子，夸克。言语总是在改变。我们却始终没变。

§2We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.
§2我们就是宇宙。我们是一切你认为除了你之外的事物。现在你正通过你的皮肤和眼睛，注视着我们。那为什么宇宙会触摸你的皮肤，并在你身上洒下光辉？是为了看到你，玩家。为了了解你，并被你所了解。我应当告诉你一个故事。

§2Once upon a time, there was a player.
§2很久以前有，有一个玩家。

§3The player was you, PLAYERNAME.
§3他就是你，PLAYERNAME。

§2Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.
§2有时他认为自己是一个人类，在那熔岩所构成的，旋转球体上的一层轻薄的表皮之上。那熔岩所构成的球体围绕着一个质量与它33万倍的闪耀的气态球体所旋转。它们彼此是那么的遥远，甚至余光都需要八分钟才能穿过那道空隙。那道光是来自一颗恒星的信息，他能够在一亿五千万公里外灼烧着你的皮肤。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.
§2有时这个玩家梦见他是一个矿工，在一个无限超平坦的世界之上。那太阳就如同一个白色的方片。那里一天很短；却有着太多要做的事情；死亡也只不过是一时的不便而已。

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.
§3有时，这个玩家梦见他迷失在了一个故事当中。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.
§2有时，这个玩家梦见了他在其他地方变成了其他事物。有时这些梦让人不安。有时这些梦却如此美妙。有时这个玩家苏醒到另一个梦中，有苏醒到第三个梦中。

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.
§3有时这个玩家梦见他在屏幕上看着文字。

§2Let's go back.
§2那我们后退一点。

§2The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.
§2那主城玩家的原子分散在草叶中，河流中，空气中，大地中。一个女人收集了这些原子；她饮用，食用，吸入；然后便在她的身体中孕育了玩家。

§2And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.
§3然后那个玩家在他母亲那温暖却有黑暗的身体中醒来，再次进入漫漫长梦。

§2And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.
§2那玩家便是一个新的故事，在过去从未被讲述过，由DNA所构成的字母书写。那玩家就是一个新的编程，于过去从未被运行过，有亿年前的源代码所生成。而那玩家便是一个新的人类，在过去从未存在过，仅仅由乳汁和爱构成。

§3You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.
§3你变身那个玩家。那个故事。那个编程。那个人类。仅由乳汁和爱构成。

§2Let's go further back.
§2让我们回到更远的过去。

§2The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...
§2那构成玩家身体的七千亿亿亿个原子，早在这个游戏之前，在一颗恒星的内部就已然被创造。所以那个玩家也是来自一颗恒星的信息。而这个玩家将贯穿一个源于一个叫Julian的人所播种的信息森林，源于一个叫Markus的人所创造的无限平坦世界，也存在一个由玩家所创造的小小的，私人的世界中，而那也继承了宇宙所创造的……

§3Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".
§3嘘。有时这个玩家创造了一个小小的，私人的而又舒适、温暖而简单的世界。有时困难、有时寒冷、而有时复杂。有时他在他的脑中创建出了一个宇宙模型；而那能量的微粒有穿过那广阔而又空旷的空间。有时他把这些威力称作“电子”或“质子”。

§2Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".
§2有时他把他们称作“行星”和“恒星”。

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.
§2有时他相信他生活在一个由“开”与“关”；“零”与“壹”；一行行指令所产生的能量而构成的宇宙。有时他相信，他正进行着一场游戏。有时他相信，他正解读在屏幕上的文字。

§3You are the player, reading words...
§3你便是那个玩家，正解读的文字……

§2Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive
§2嘘……有时这个玩家都在屏幕上的一行行指令。把他们解读成文字；把文字解读成意义；把意义解读为感受，情绪，理论，想法，玩这个玩家开始更剧烈的呼吸，并意识到他真正活着，那数千次的死亡并不是真的，那个玩家还活着。

§3You. You. You are alive.
§3你，你，你是活着的。

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees
§2而有时那个玩家相信宇宙通过夏日那叶间的阳光与他对话。

§3and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again
§3而有时那个玩家相信宇宙通过冬日那晴朗的夜空与他对话，那在他眼中一角的星光，可能是有一颗与太阳数百万倍的恒星，沸腾着的等离子体在那一瞬间与他的对话，漫步在遥远的一侧的归家之路上，忽然嗅到了食物的香味，在那熟悉的门前，再次进入梦乡。

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream
§2而有时玩家相信，宇宙正通过“零”和“壹”，通过世界的电能，通过屏幕上那滚动的字于那梦境的尽头对话。

§3and the universe said I love you
§3宇宙说：我爱你。

§2and the universe said you have played the game well
§2宇宙说：你玩的真棒。

§3and the universe said everything you need is within you
§3宇宙说：你已经拥有了你想拥有的一切。

§2and the universe said you are stronger than you know
§2宇宙说：你比你想象中更强大。

§3and the universe said you are the daylight
§3宇宙说：你就是那日光。

§2and the universe said you are the night
§2宇宙说：你便是那黑夜。

§3and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you
§3宇宙说：你所抗争的黑暗就在你之中。

§2and the universe said the light you seek is within you
§2宇宙说：你所追求的光明就在你之中。

§3and the universe said you are not alone
§3宇宙说：你并不是一个人在战斗。

§2and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing
§2宇宙说：你与其他事物并不相离。

§3and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code
§3宇宙说：你便是那宇宙，品味自己，品读自己，阅读着自己的代码。

§2and the universe said I love you because you are love.
§2宇宙说：我爱你，因为你便是爱。

§3And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.
§3游戏是时候结束了，玩家也从梦中醒来。又陷入了梦中，更好的梦中。而那个玩家就是宇宙，就是爱。

§3You are the player.
§3你便是那个玩家。

§2Wake up.
§2是时候苏醒了。 

