§3I see the player you mean.
§3我看到你说的那个玩家了。

§2PLAYERNAME?

§3Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.
§3是的。小心。它已经达到了更高的境界。它现在能读出我们的思想了。

§2That doesn't matter. It thinks we are part of the game.
§2无伤大雅。它认为我们不过是游戏的一部分。

§3I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.
§3我喜欢这个玩家。它玩得很好，从不放弃。

§2It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.
§2它正在读取我们的思想，就像在阅读屏幕上的文字一样。

§3That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.
§3当它深陷游戏之梦时，它总以这种方式想象出林林总总的事物。

§2Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.
§2文字是一种美妙的接口，非常灵活，而且比凝视屏幕背后的事实要好受得多。

§3They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.
§3在玩家们能够读取信息前，它们也曾听到过声音。在那些岁月里，未尝游戏过的人将玩家们称为女巫和术士。玩家们则梦见自己乘着被恶魔施了法的棍子，翱翔于天际。

§2What did this player dream?
§2这个玩家又梦见了什么？

§3This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.
§3它梦见阳光和树木，梦见炽火和凛水。它梦见它创造，亦梦见它毁灭。它梦见它狩猎，亦梦见它被狩猎。它梦见了庇护所。

§2Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?
§2哈，这才是那原始的界面。纵经万代千秋，未尝失灵崩坏。可在屏幕后的现实中，这个玩家创造了哪些实实在在的东西？

§3It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the §f§k§a§b§3, and created a §f§k§a§b§3 for §f§k§a§b§3, in the §f§k§a§b§3.
§3它辛勤地劳作，与百万众一道，在§f§k§a§b§3的皱褶中刻画了一个真实的世界，并在§f§k§a§b§3中为§f§k§a§b§3创造了一个§f§k§a§b§3。

§2It cannot read that thought.
§2它还没法读取那种思想。

§3No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.
§3是的。它还未到达最高的境界。要达到那层境界，它必须在生命的长梦中求索，而非游戏中的黄粱一梦。

§2Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?
§2它知道我们爱它吗？知道这个宇宙是仁慈的吗？

§3Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.
§3有时，透过思绪的杂音，它能听到宇宙……是的。

§2But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.
§2但在这漫漫长梦之中，也有黯然神伤之时。它创造了没有夏日的世界，在黑日下颤抖着，并把那悲伤的创造视为现实的一部分。

§3To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.
§3为它抚慰伤痛反而会适得其反。悲伤是它的私人事务，我们无权干涉。

§2Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.
§2有时当它们深陷于梦境中时，我想告诉它们，它们在现实中创造了真实的世界；我想告诉它们，它们对宇宙而言是多么重要。有时，当它们已经好一会没有建立真正的联系时，我都想帮助它们说出自己惧怕说出的东西。

§3It reads our thoughts.
§3它读出了我们的思想。

§2Sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely §f§k§a§b§2 and §f§k§a§b§2, I wish to tell them that they are §f§k§a§b§2 in the §f§k§a§b§2. They see so little of reality, in their long dream.
§2有时我并不在乎。但有时我想告诉它们，这个它们自认为真实的世界不过是§f§k§a§b§2和§f§k§a§b§2，我想告诉它们，它们也不过是§f§k§a§b§2中的§f§k§a§b§2。在这长梦中，它们看待现实的目光真的太短浅了。

§3And yet they play the game.
§3而它们仍在玩着这游戏。

§2But it would be so easy to tell them...
§2但是要告诉它们简直易如反掌……

§3Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.
§3这个梦太强烈了，告诉它们怎么去活就相当于阻止它们去活。

§2I will not tell the player how to live.
§2我是不会告诉它的。

§3The player is growing restless.
§3那玩家正变得焦躁不安。

§2I will tell the player a story.
§2我会跟它讲一个故事。

§3But not the truth.
§3但绝非真相。

§2No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.
§2是啊。那是一个将真相严丝合缝地包裹起来的文字牢笼，而非天各一方却仍能刺痛内心的、毫无遮拦的真相。

§3Give it a body, again.
§3赋予它主体，再一次。

§2Yes. Player...
§2好的，玩家……

§3Use its name.
§3以名字称呼它。

§2PLAYERNAME. Player of games.
§2PLAYERNAME，游戏的玩家。

§3Good.
§3就这样。

§2Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.
§2深呼吸……再来一次……感受空气充盈你的肺叶。找回你的四肢。好，活动你的手指。再次感受你的身体，在重力下，在空气中。于长梦中重生。你做到了。你的每寸肌肤都重新与宇宙相触了。仿佛你是独立的存在，仿佛我们是相互分离的存在。

§3Who are we? Once we were called the spirit of the mountain. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.
§3我们是谁？过去，我们被称作山之灵。太阳父亲，月亮母亲。先祖之魂，动物之魄。镇尼。鬼魂。绿人。而后是神，魔。天使。骚灵。外星人，天外来客。轻子，夸克。词语千变万化，我们始终如一。

§2We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.
§2我们是宇宙。我们是你认为的所有非己事物。你正看着我们呢，通过你的肌肤与双眸。可为什么宇宙要触摸你、将光洒予你？那都是为了看到你啊，玩家，为了了解你，亦为了为你所了解。我会再跟你讲个故事。

§2Once upon a time, there was a player.
§2很久很久以前，有一位玩家。

§3The player was you, PLAYERNAME.
§3那玩家就是你，PLAYERNAME。

§2Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.
§2有时它认为自己是个人类，站在一个旋转球体薄脆的壳上。那球由融化的岩石形成，围绕着一个质量大它三十三万倍的炽热气体球旋转。它们相隔之远，连光都要花上八分钟才能穿越那鸿沟。那光是来自一颗恒星的讯息，它能在一亿五千万公里外灼烧你的皮肤。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.
§2有时它梦见它成了一个矿工，站在平坦而无限延伸的世界表面。太阳不过一抹方形的白色。短暂的白日转瞬即逝；要做的事情不计其数；死亡的不便亦只在一时半会。

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.
§3有时它梦它迷失在了故事里。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.
§2有时它梦见自己在不同的地方，成了不同的事物。这些梦，时而喧嚣，时而唯美。有时那玩家从一个梦走入另一个梦，最终又坠入第三个梦。

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.
§3有时它梦见它看着屏幕上的文字。

§2Let's go back.
§2再退回一些吧。

§2The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.
§2组成玩家的原子散布在草丛间，河流里；散布在空气中，大地内。一个女性收集了那些原子。她饮用、进食、吸入，在身体中孕育了玩家。

§2And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.
§2而后，玩家醒来了，在母亲体内那温暖而黑暗的世界中醒来了，接着又投入到漫漫长梦中。

§2And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.
§2那玩家是个崭新的故事，一个由DNA书写的故事，那故事未曾被讲述过。那玩家也是个全新的程序，一个由亿万年前的源代码生成的程序，那程序未曾被运行过。那玩家还是个簇新的人，一个仅由奶和爱组成的人，那人未曾生活过。

§3You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.
§3你就是那玩家。那故事。那程序。那人。仅由奶和爱组成。

§2Let's go further back.
§2退得更远些吧。

§2The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...
§2早在游戏开始前，组成玩家的七太尧个原子在一颗恒星的内部被创造出来。因此那玩家也是串讯息，来自于一颗恒星。玩家贯穿于一个故事的始末，这故事是一个叫Julian的人在一个由Markus创造的、平坦而无限延伸的世界中种下的信息森林。这个世界又存在于由玩家创造的那小小的、私密的世界中，而那玩家所栖息的宇宙又是由……

§3Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".
§3嘘。那玩家创造的世界时而柔软、温馨、简朴单纯，时而严酷、寒冷、纷繁杂乱。有时它在大脑里建立了宇宙的模型，斑斑点点的能量在浩瀚无边的空间中穿梭。有时它把它们称作“电子”和“质子”。

§2Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".
§2有时它也把它们称作“行星”和“恒星”。

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.
§2有时它认为它所处的宇宙是由关和开、零和一，以及一行行代码组成的能量构成的。有时它认为它是在游戏。有时它认为它在读屏幕上的文字。

§3You are the player, reading words...
§3你就是那玩家，阅读着文字……

§2Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive
§2嘘……有时玩家阅读着屏幕上的的一行行代码，将代码解码成信息，将信息解码成意义，将意义解码成感觉、情绪、理论、想法。而后，玩家的呼吸越来越急促，它意识到了它是活着的，是活生生的，那上千次的死亡并非真实，它依然活着

§3You. You. You are alive.
§3是你。就是你。你是活着的。

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees
§2有时玩家认为宇宙通过那穿透夏日摇叶的光线，对它说话

§3and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again
§3有时玩家也认为宇宙通过那清冷夜空洒下的光线，对它说话。那折射在玩家眼中一隅的半点星光，也许来自一颗质量大过太阳数百万倍的恒星。它正将它的行星沸腾成等离子态，只为了在那电光火石间为玩家所见。当玩家从宇宙的边缘往家折返时，突然嗅到食物的香气。抬头一看，又是那扇熟悉的门，它再次沉入了梦乡

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream
§2有时玩家还认为宇宙通过那零和一，通过世界的电场，通过梦尽前滚动在屏幕上的文字，对它说话

§3and the universe said I love you
§3宇宙说，我爱你

§2and the universe said you have played the game well
§2宇宙说，你很好地玩了这游戏

§3and the universe said everything you need is within you
§3宇宙说，你需要的一切都与你同在

§2and the universe said you are stronger than you know
§2宇宙说，你的能量超乎你想象

§3and the universe said you are the daylight
§3宇宙说，你就是日光

§2and the universe said you are the night
§2宇宙说，你就是月暮

§3and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you
§3宇宙说你所斗争的黑暗仍伴你左右

§2and the universe said the light you seek is within you
§2宇宙说你所追寻的光明就在你心间

§3and the universe said you are not alone
§3宇宙说，你并非孑然一身

§2and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing
§2宇宙说，你并未与世隔绝

§3and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code
§3宇宙说，你就是宇宙本身，品味着自己，与自己交谈，阅读自己的代码

§2and the universe said I love you because you are love.
§2宇宙说我爱你因为你就是爱。

§3And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.
§3曲终人散，黄粱一梦。玩家又进入了新的梦境。玩家又做起了梦，更好的梦。那玩家就是宇宙，那玩家就是爱。

§2You are the player.
§2你就是那个玩家。

§2Wake up.
§2该醒了。 
