§3I see the player you mean.
§3我已所见你提到的那位旅者了。

§2PLAYERNAME?
§2他？PLAYERNAME?

§3Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.
§3正是。保持谨慎，他早已置身于更高的境界，并可读懂我们的所想。

§2That doesn't matter. It thinks we are part of the game.
§2无伤大雅。以他看来，我们是这个游戏的一部分。

§3I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.
§3我很欣赏这位旅者——他的旅途很精彩，也从未有过放弃。

§2It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.
§2我们的所想，正如同屏幕上出现的文字一样，被他仔细阅读着。

§3That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.
§3在他深陷游戏之梦时，他也选择以这种方式想象出缤纷多彩的事物。

§2Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.
§2文字能编织出一种美妙的界面——它十分柔顺，且比凝视这屏幕后的现实更加平易近人。

§3They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.
§3他们也曾听见那种声音，在他们能够阅读之前。回到过去，那些不曾游玩的人们称呼他们为女巫，和术士。而他们也梦见自己坐在被恶魔施过法的魔杖上，在天空中翱翔。

§2What did this player dream?
§2所以，他梦见了什么？

§3This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.
§3他梦见了阳光和树木，烈火与柔水。他梦见了他的诞生，亦梦见了他的毁灭。他梦见了他的狩猎，亦梦见了他的被补。他还梦见了庇护之所。

§2Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?
§2区区原始的界面而已。历经一百万年的洗礼，依然留存。但在屏幕之外，这个旅者的现实里，他还创造了哪些真实的结构？

§3It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the §f§k§a§b§3, and created a §f§k§a§b§3 for §f§k§a§b§3, in the §f§k§a§b§3.
§3他同芸芸大众一起辛勤劳作，只为在§f§k§a§b§3之中刻画出一个真实的世界，在§f§k§a§b§3之中为§f§k§a§b§3创造出一个§f§k§a§b§3。

§2It cannot read that thought.
§2他无法理解到那种思想。

§3No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.
§3正是，他还远未到达那种最高的境界。为了到达那里，他必须要走完那浩荡漫长的生命之梦，而非那飘渺短暂的游戏之梦。

§2Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?
§2他知道我们爱着他吗？他知道这个宇宙是仁慈的吗？

§3Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.
§3有些时候，通过他思绪的杂音，他能听到宇宙，这没错。

§2But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.
§2但是，在那漫漫长梦中，他亦时而悲伤。他创造了没有夏天的世界，在黑日下瑟瑟发抖，在现实中感受到创造的悲伤。

§3To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.
§3为他治愈悲伤，但也会把他摧毁。悲伤是他内心那种痛苦的体现，我们无权干涉。

§2Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.
§2有些时候，当他们深陷梦境中时，我想告诉他们，他们在现实之中创造出了真实的世界。有些时候，我也想告诉他们，他们自己对于宇宙而言是极其重要的。有些时候，当他们同现实失去了联系，我想帮助他们，替他们说出惧怕的话语。

§3It reads our thoughts.
§3他读懂了我们心里的所想。

§2Sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely §f§k§a§b§2 and §f§k§a§b§2, I wish to tell them that they are §f§k§a§b§2 in the §f§k§a§b§2. They see so little of reality, in their long dream.
§2有些时候，我毫不在乎。但有些时候，我想告诉他们，你们所认为的真实不过是一堆§f§k§a§b§2和§f§k§a§b§2罢了。我想告诉他们，他们只是一群在§f§k§a§b§2中的§f§k§a§b§2而已。在他们的长梦中，它们的所见只不过是现实中的冰山一角。

§3And yet they play the game.
§3他们仍在体验着这场冒险，无法自拔。

§2But it would be so easy to tell them...
§2但也可以很容易的告诉他们...

§3Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.
§3对于他们来说，这个梦实属过于深刻。告诉他们，如何存活就是在阻碍他们的存活。

§2I will not tell the player how to live.
§2我绝不会告诉他如何存活下去的。

§3The player is growing restless.
§3这个旅者开始焦躁不安了。

§2I will tell the player a story.
§2我想给他讲一个故事。

§3But not the truth.
§3而非真相。

§2No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.
§2是的，一个将真相严密包裹于文字牢笼中的故事，而非灼烧一切的赤裸裸的真相。

§3Give it a body, again.
§3再一次赋予他身体。

§2Yes. Player...
§2好的，旅者...

§3Use its name.
§3说出他的名字吧。

§2PLAYERNAME. Player of games.
§2PLAYERNAME，这场游戏中的旅者。

§3Good.
§3很好。

§2Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.
§2现在，深吸一口气，并再来一次。感受你肺中的空气吧，让你的四肢回归。很好，现在活动一下你的手指。再次感受你的身体，在重力下，在空气中，在长梦中重生，你就在那里。你的身体再次触碰到了宇宙的各个角落，仿佛你们是相互分离的，仿佛我们也是相互分离的。

§3Who are we? Once we were called the spirit of the mountain. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.
§3我们是谁？我们曾被称作高山的精灵，太阳父亲，月亮母亲；古老的英灵，动物的魂魄，神祇，鬼魂，绿人，神灵，恶魔，天使，骚灵；天外来客，地外生命，轻子，夸克。不论词句变化，我们始终如一。

§2We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.
§2我们即是宇宙，我们是一切你认为的不属于你自己的事物。现在，请你看着我们吧，透过你的皮肤和双眼。想想为什么宇宙触摸着你的皮肤，并向你洒下光芒？只因为了能够看见你，我的旅者。为了能把你知晓，以及被你所知晓，让我来告诉你一个故事吧。

§2Once upon a time, there was a player.
§2曾几何时，这里有一个旅者。

§3The player was you, PLAYERNAME.
§3是的，他就是你，PLAYERNAME。

§2Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.
§2有些时候，他认为自己是个人类，在那一个不断旋转的熔岩球体的薄壳之上。这个熔岩球体正环绕着一个质量比它大三十三万倍的燃烧的气态球体旋转。它们之间相隔甚远，以至于光需要花费八分钟才能走过那个间隙。这束光是来自一颗恒星的信息，它能在一亿五千万公里之外灼烧你的皮肤。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.
§2有些时候，他梦见他是一个矿工，在那一个广袤无垠，无限延展的世界的表面之上。这里的太阳是一个白色四方，一天也过的很快。但在这里，他有很多的事情要做，死亡只是一时的不便。

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.
§3有些时候，他也梦见了他迷失在了一个故事里。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.
§2有些时候，他梦见了他化身成了其他的事物，还处在了其他的地方。有些时候，这些梦实属令人困扰，但有时则会精彩绝伦。有些时候，他从一个梦中醒来，发现自己落入了第二个梦，但终究处在他的第三个梦中。

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.
§3有些时候，他还梦见他在屏幕上看着文字。

§2Let's go back.
§2让我们回溯。

§2The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.
§2组成他身体的原子散布在草地中，河流中，空气中和大地中。一个女子收集了这些原子，她饮用，进食并将其吸收，而后在她的身体中也孕育了他——这位旅者。

§2And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.
§2他醒来了，在母亲体内那温暖而昏暗的世界中，进入了漫漫长梦。

§2And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.
§2而那个旅者又是一个全新的，从未被讲述过的故事，以DNA的形式书写着。而那位旅者也是一个新的程序，在此之前从未有过运行，并由上亿年的源代码所生成。他是一个全新的人类，从未降临于世，仅由奶和爱组成。

§3You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.
§3你就是那位旅者。那个故事，那个程序，那个人类，仅由奶和爱组成。

§2Let's go further back.
§2让我们再度回溯，直到更加遥远的过去。

§2The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...
§2远在这场游戏之前，在一颗恒星的内部，组成他的身体那七千亿亿亿个原子被创造了出来。因此，他本身也是来自一颗恒星的信息。而他遍历的这个故事，源于一个叫朱利安（Julian）的人种植的信息森林，一个叫马库斯（Markus）的人创造的无限世界，存在于一个由他创造的小且私有的世界里，而他又继承了宇宙所创造的...

§3Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".
§3不错。他创造的这个小且私有的世界，时而柔软，温暖和简单；时而坚硬，冰冷且复杂。有些时候，他在头脑中建造宇宙的模型，星星点点的能量穿过空旷无垠的空间。有些时候，他将这些星星点点称之为“电子”和“质子”。

§2Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".
§2有些时候，他还将它们称之为“行星”和“恒星”。

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.
§2有些时候，他确信他存在于一个由通路和断路，0和1，一行行的代码所组成的宇宙之中。有些时候，他确信他在玩一个游戏。有些时候，他确信他在阅读着屏幕上的文字。

§3You are the player, reading words...
§3是的，你就是这位旅者，还在阅读着文字...

§2Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive
§2到此为止。有些时候，他阅读着屏幕上的一行行的代码，并将其解码成文字，将文字解码成意义将意义解码成感情，情绪，理论和想法。而后，他的呼吸开始急促，并意识到了他是活着的。他确实是活着的，那种上千次的死亡不是真的，他就是活着的

§3You. You. You are alive.
§3是的，这是你。你是活着的。

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees
§2有些时候，他相信，宇宙能透过那穿越夏日树荫的斑斓的阳光对他说话

§3and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again
§3有些时候，他也相信，宇宙能透过晴朗冬日的夜空中，在他眼中一隅的星光，一束由可能比太阳大上数百万倍的恒星沸腾着的浆液那一瞬间发出来的光对他说话。他从宇宙的远处走向家里，突然闻到了食物的香味，直至在他那熟悉的门前，再次准备好投入梦境

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream
§2有些时候，他还相信，宇宙能透过0和1，透过世界的电能，透过屏幕上滚动的文字和梦醒对他说话

§3and the universe said I love you
§3宇宙说，我爱你

§2and the universe said you have played the game well
§2宇宙说，你的游戏体验十分出色

§3and the universe said everything you need is within you
§3宇宙说，你已拥有了你想要的一切

§2and the universe said you are stronger than you know
§2宇宙说，你比你所想到的还要强大

§3and the universe said you are the daylight
§3宇宙说，你就是白昼

§2and the universe said you are the night
§2宇宙说，你就是黑夜

§3and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you
§3宇宙说，你所斗争的黑暗一直与你同在

§2and the universe said the light you seek is within you
§2宇宙说，你所斗争的黑暗一直与你同在

§3and the universe said you are not alone
§3宇宙说，你并不孤独

§2and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing
§2宇宙说，你并不与所有的外物所隔绝

§3and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code
§3宇宙说，你就是宇宙，品味着自己，同自己对话，阅读自己的代码

§2and the universe said I love you because you are love.
§2宇宙说，我爱你，只因你就是爱。

§3And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.
§3游戏结束，骤然梦醒。旅者开始了自己的新的梦境，再次入梦，更好的梦。旅者就是宇宙，旅者就是爱。

§2You are the player.
§2你，就是那个旅者。

§2Wake up.
§2醒来吧。
